We previously defined the cost function J.
In this video, I want to tell you about
an algorithm called gradient descent for
minimizing the cost function J.
It turns out gradient descent
is a more general algorithm, and
is used not only in linear regression.
It's actually used all over
the place in machine learning.
And later in the class,
we'll use gradient descent to minimize
other functions as well, not just the cost
function J for the linear regression.
So in this video, we'll talk about
gradient descent for minimizing some
arbitrary function J and then in later
videos, we'll take this algorithm and
apply it specifically to the cost
function J that we have defined for
linear regression.
So here's the problem setup.
Going to assume that we have
some function J(theta 0,
theta 1) maybe it's the cost
function from linear regression,
maybe it's some other
function we wanna minimize.
And we want to come up
with an algorithm for
minimizing that as a function
of J(theta 0, theta 1).
Just as an aside it turns out that
gradient descent actually applies to more
general functions.
So imagine, if you have a function that's
a function of J, as theta 0, theta 1,
theta 2, up to say some theta n,
and you want to minimize theta 0.
You minimize over theta 0 up to theta
n of this J of theta 0 up to theta n.
And it turns our gradient
descent is an algorithm for
solving this more general problem.
But for the sake of brevity, for
the sake of succinctness of notation,
I'm just going to pretend I have only
two parameters throughout
the rest of this video.
Here's the idea for gradient descent.
What we're going to do is we're going to
start off with some initial guesses for
theta 0 and theta 1.
Doesn't really matter what they are, but
a common choice would be we set theta
0 to 0, and set theta 1 to 0,
just initialize them to 0.
What we're going to do in gradient descent
is we'll keep changing theta 0 and
theta 1 a little bit to try to reduce
J(theta 0, theta 1), until hopefully,
we wind at a minimum, or
maybe at a local minimum.
So let's see in pictures
what gradient descent does.
Let's say you're trying to
minimize this function.
So notice the axes, this is theta 0,
theta 1 on the horizontal axes and
J is the vertical axis and
so the height of the surface shows J and
we want to minimize this function.
So we're going to start off with theta 0,
theta 1 at some point.
So imagine picking some value for
theta 0, theta 1, and
that corresponds to starting at some
point on the surface of this function.
So whatever value of theta 0,
theta 1 gives you some point here.
I did initialize them to 0, 0 but
sometimes you initialize
it to other values as well.
Now, I want you to imagine
that this figure shows a hole.
Imagine this is like the landscape
of some grassy park,
with two hills like so, and I want us
to imagine that you are physically
standing at that point on the hill,
on this little red hill in your park.
In gradient descent, what we're going to
do is we're going to spin 360 degrees
around, just look all around us, and ask,
if I were to take a little baby step in
some direction, and I want to go
downhill as quickly as possible,
what direction do I take
that little baby step in?
If I wanna go down, so
I wanna physically walk down this
hill as rapidly as possible.
Turns out, that if you're standing at that
point on the hill, you look all around and
you find that the best direction
is to take a little step downhill
is roughly that direction.
Okay, and
now you're at this new point on your hill.
You're gonna, again, look all around and
say what direction should I step in order
to take a little baby step downhill?
And if you do that and take another step,
you take a step in that direction.
And then you keep going.
From this new point you look around,
decide what direction would
take you downhill most quickly.
Take another step, another step, and so
on until you converge to this
local minimum down here.
Gradient descent has
an interesting property.
This first time we ran gradient descent
we were starting at this point over
here, right?
Started at that point over here.
Now imagine we had initialized gradient
descent just a couple steps to the right.
Imagine we'd initialized gradient descent
with that point on the upper right.
If you were to repeat this process, so
start from that point, look all around,
take a little step in the direction of
steepest descent, you would do that.
Then look around,
take another step, and so on.
And if you started just a couple of steps
to the right, gradient descent would've
taken you to this second local
optimum over on the right.
So if you had started this first point,
you would've wound up at this local
optimum, but if you started just
at a slightly different location,
you would've wound up at a very
different local optimum.
And this is a property of
gradient descent that we'll say
a little bit more about later.
So that's the intuition in pictures.
Let's look at the math.
This is the definition of
the gradient descent algorithm.
We're going to just repeatedly
do this until convergence,
we're going to update my parameter
theta j by taking theta j and
subtracting from it alpha times
this term over here, okay?
So let's see, there's lot of details in
this equation so let me unpack some of it.
First, this notation here,
:=, gonna use := to
denote assignment, so
it's the assignment operator.
So briefly, if I write a := b, what
this means is, it means in a computer,
this means take the value in b and
use it overwrite whatever value is a.
So this means set a to be equal to
the value of b, which is assignment.
And I can also do a := a + 1.
This means take a and
increase its value by one.
Whereas in contrast,
if I use the equal sign and
I write a equals b,
then this is a truth assertion.
Okay?
So if I write a equals b,
then I'll asserting that the value of
a equals to the value of b, right?
So the left hand side,
that's the computer operation,
where we set the value
of a to a new value.
The right hand side, this is asserting,
I'm just making a claim that the values of
a and b are the same, and so whereas you
can write a := a + 1, that means increment
a by 1, hopefully I won't ever write
a = a + 1 because that's just wrong.
a and a + 1 can never be
equal to the same values.
Okay?
So this is first part of the definition.
This alpha here is a number that
is called the learning rate.
And what alpha does is
it basically controls
how big a step we take downhill
with creating descent.
So if alpha is very large, then that
corresponds to a very aggressive gradient
descent procedure where we're
trying take huge steps downhill and
if alpha is very small, then we're taking
little, little baby steps downhill.
And I'll come back and say more about this
later, about how to set alpha and so on.
And finally, this term here,
that's a derivative term.
I don't wanna talk about it right now, but
I will derive this derivative term and
tell you exactly what this is later, okay?
And some of you will be more familiar
with calculus than others, but
even if you aren't familiar with calculus,
don't worry about it.
I'll tell you what you need
to know about this term here.
Now, there's one more subtlety
about gradient descent which is in
gradient descent we're going to update,
you know, theta 0 and theta 1, right?
So this update takes place for
j = 0 and j = 1, so
you're gonna update theta 0 and
update theta 1.
And the subtlety of how you
implement gradient descent is for
this expression, for this update equation,
you want to simultaneously
update theta 0 and theta 1.
What I mean by that is that in this
equation, we're gonna update theta 0 :=
theta 0 minus something, and
update theta 1 := theta 1 minus something.
And the way to implement is you should
compute the right hand side, right?
Compute that thing for theta 0 and
theta 1 and then simultaneously,
at the same time,
update theta 0 and theta 1, okay?
So let me say what I mean by that.
This is a correct implementation of
gradient descent meaning simultaneous
update.
So I'm gonna set temp0 equals that,
set temp1 equals that so
basic compute the right-hand sides, and
then having computed the right-hand
sides and stored them into variables temp0
and temp1, I'm gonna update theta 0 and
theta 1 simultaneously because
that's the correct implementation.
In contrast,
here's an incorrect implementation that
does not do a simultaneous update.
So in this incorrect implementation,
we compute temp0, and
then we update theta 0, and then we
compute temp1, and then we update temp1.
And the difference between
the right hand side and
the left hand side implementations
is that If you look down here,
you look at this step, if by this
time you've already updated theta 0,
then you would be using the new value of
theta 0 to compute this derivative term.
And so this gives you a different value
of temp1, than the left-hand side, right?
Because you've now plugged in the new
value of theta 0 into this equation.
And so, this on the right-hand side
is not a correct implementation
of gradient descent, okay?
So I don't wanna say why you need
to do the simultaneous updates.
It turns out that the way gradient
descent is usually implemented,
which I'll say more about later,
it actually turns out to be more natural
to implement the simultaneous updates.
And when people talk
about gradient descent,
they always mean simultaneous update.
If you implement the non
simultaneous update,
it turns out it will probably work anyway.
But this algorithm wasn't right.
It's not what people refer
to as gradient descent, and
this is some other algorithm
with different properties.
And for various reasons this can behave
in slightly stranger ways, and so
what you should do is really implement the
simultaneous update of gradient descent.
So, that's the outline of
the gradient descent algorithm.
In the next video, we're going to go
into the details of the derivative term,
which I wrote up but didn't really define.
And if you've taken a calculus class
before and if you're familiar with partial
derivatives and derivatives, it turns out
that's exactly what that derivative term
is, but in case you aren't familiar
with calculus, don't worry about it.
The next video will give
you all the intuitions and
will tell you everything you need to know
to compute that derivative term, even if
you haven't seen calculus, or even if you
haven't seen partial derivatives before.
And with that, with the next video,
hopefully we'll
be able to give you all the intuitions
you need to apply gradient descent.